docs: external dependencies and resource weight (#4596)
werf/werf: docs/pages_en/advanced/helm/deploy_process/external_dependencies.md

---
title: External dependencies
permalink: advanced/helm/deploy_process/external_dependencies.html
---

> If you want to make one release resource depend on another you can change its [deployment order]({{ "/advanced/helm/deploy_process/deployment_order.html" | true_relative_url }}) to make the latter deploy only after the former is deployed successfully. But what if we want to make a release resource depend on a resource that is not managed as part of our release, or even not managed by werf at all (e.g. created by some operator)?
> 
> [`<name>.external-dependency.werf.io/resource`]({{ "/reference/deploy_annotations.html#external-dependency-resource" | true_relative_url }}) annotation can define an external dependency on another resource. Until the defined external dependency is created and ready, the annotated resource will not be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make one release resource dependent on another, you can change its [deployment order]({{ "/advanced/helm/deploy_process/deployment_order.html" | true_relative_url }}) so that the dependent one is deployed after the primary one has been successfully deployed. But what if you want a release resource to depend on a resource that is not part of that release or is not even managed by werf (e.g., created by some operator)?

In this case, the [`<name>.external-dependency.werf.io/resource`]({{ "/reference/deploy_annotations.html#external-dependency-resource" | true_relative_url }}) annotation can help you set the dependency on an external resource. The annotated resource will not be deployed until the defined external dependency is created and ready.
```

Example:
```yaml
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: app
  annotations:
    secret.external-dependency.werf.io/resource: secret/dynamic-vault-secret
```

> In this example the `app` deployment will not be deployed and will wait until Secret `dynamic-vault-secret` is created. Lets assume that `dynamic-vault-secret` is created by the operator from your Vault instance and is not managed by werf.
> 
> Another example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, werf will wait for the `dynamic-vault-secret` to be created before proceeding to deploy the `app` deployment. Let's now assume that `dynamic-vault-secret` is created by the operator from your Vault instance and is not managed by werf.

Here is a relevant example:
```

Author: Second example is not related to the first one.

This
```
Lets assume that `dynamic-vault-secret` is created by the operator from your Vault instance and is not managed by werf.
```
was about the first example.

Reviewer: Rephrased: **We** assume that `dynamic-vault-secret` is created by the operator from your Vault instance...

```yaml
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: service1
  annotations:
    service2.external-dependency.werf.io/resource: deployment/service2
    service2.external-dependency.werf.io/namespace: service2-production
```

> Here the deployment of `service1` will not be started until deployment `service2` in another namespace is well and ready. `service2` deployment might be deployed as part of another werf release, or not be deployed by werf at all, but managed using different CI/CD software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, werf will not start deploying `service1` until the deployment of `service2` in another namespace has been successfully completed. Note that `service2` might be deployed as part of another werf release or managed by some other CI/CD software (i.e., outside of the werf's control).
```

Author: I think we need to make clear that `service2` can't be deployed as part of current release. Either in another release with werf or without werf at all.
